
Final Project Lab Report


Due May 9


Alexandra Cornell
Brayton Arthur
Jack Bagnulo
Ryleigh Romero








GitHub Link: https://github.com/BipedalGiraffe/CPE-301-Final-Project-Group-3/tree/main


Video Link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CORQTVc2_FuH3Zpi3FfgBLTfb6wGLHjA/view?usp=drivesdk


Project Description:
Our final project is a swamp cooler system built using the Arduino 2560 and components from the lab kit. The cooler monitors air temperature, humidity, and water level. It then uses this information and controls a fan motor to cool air through evaporation. A DHT11 sensor provides temperature and humidity readings, which are shown on an LCD screen and updated once every minute. A water level sensor ensures there’s enough water stored. If there is not sufficient water, the system enters a state of error and shuts the fan off. The cooler has multiple states, which include disabled, idle, and running, as well as the error state. These are each defined by a different LED color. Disabled is yellow, idle is green, running is blue, and red is for error.
The user can start or stop the system with push buttons. The disabled state is entered using an interrupt. While the system is on, the fan will turn on when the temperature goes above a set value and turn off when the temperature drops back down. Then, the system will go to idle. The vent direction can be changed, and to do that, we are using a stepper motor, which is controlled by a potentiometer. Any changes to its position are logged by the real-time clock module. The LCD keeps updating with temperature and humidity readings every minute, and it will also show error messages if any error occurs. If the fan turns on or off or the states change, the computer will receive a notice. This helps with tracking everything that’s happening in the system.
Component Details:
Arduino 2560 – Main controller for all system operations
Water Level Sensor – Detects water levels; can trigger error state
DHT11 Sensor – Measures air temperature and humidity
LCD Display – Displays temp, humidity, error messages
DC Motor, Fan Blade – Blows air to act as a cooling fan
Stepper Motor – Adjusts output vent direction
Potentiometer– Allows user to adjust vent direction
Serial Connect – Sends event logs to computer
Yellow LED – Indicates disabled state
Green LED – Indicates idle state
Red LED – Indicates error state
Blue LED – Indicates running state
Resistors– Limit current to prevent damage, used for LED
Start Button– Enables system
Stop Button – Disables system
Reset Button – Clears error if issue is fixed
Breadboard & Jumper Wires – Build circuit 
4. Circuit Image:
Included in submitted report

Schematic Diagram (Mandatory):
https://www.tinkercad.com/things/kOFXM9LEmYD-glorious-gaaris/editel?returnTo=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinkercad.com%2Fdashboard%2Fdesigns%2Fcircuits&sharecode=YtMtfIEFxedSxaaXt5EDFWCBNrQtQm7l4b2zpYiqTGE
